Customer service by telephone sucks.

Telephone communication is intrusive and wasteful. What happens when you're

* on hold?
* trying to navigate their absurd menu when really they should have provided a dedicated number
* trying to do some work whilst resolving this matter
* trying to resolve the matters out of hours
* trying to talk to someone who can clearly speak English
* have a poor mobile connection that's both bad quality and very expensive to call 'Toll free' & Low call numbers

Compared to email, where you can make your complaint in your own time and convenience whilst making sure all your points of concern are clearly noted.

In years past, in order to complain we sent a letter. If it was a serious
matter, a photocopy would have been made. Perhaps the letter was sent
registered to ensure the recipient did receive it. A fax would have done both
the copy and the verification quite sufficiently.

Today toll free telephone call centres are deployed by the industry to serve
you the customer. Whilst communication with the customer is often far quicker
and convenient over the telephone, there is no transcript.

With no copy of the communication that you had in the past with a letter or fax
you have no recourse in a court of law.

A call centre teleworker can swindle you, mislead you and you will have no way
to prove this. Even if you were informed, you can not use this information
seriously anywhere.

So when companies such as 3 or Virgin Media only want to communicate with you
via voice, I'm deeply concerned. It's a disgrace that UK's biggest ISP does not
permit email correspondence with their customers.

Demand email correspondence. Demand accountability from your service provider. Write a letter asking for an email address.
