content/blog/Gsuite-Workspaces-breakdown.md, before:

---
title: Google Workspaces Chat Rooms suck
date: 2021-02-01T10:48:55+08:00
description: Want to search across various mediums offered by Workspaces? You can't with chat rooms
---

Typically on a "Gsuite" enabled company you have

1. A chat room
2. A mailing list

# Problem with the chat room <img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-02-01/chat.png">

You will have a room that looks like: https://chat.google.com/room/${RANDOM_11_CHARS}

Issues:

1. Opaque room URL
1. Difficult to find/join rooms since you need to go via a **Browse Rooms** dialog
1. No pin / topic
1. No way to link to a conversation
1. No way to reference a message in a reply

[Cloud search](https://s.natalian.org/2021-02-01/cloud-search.png) is of no
help when it comes to searching in Chat rooms. However [Gmail
search](https://s.natalian.org/2021-02-01/gmail.png) can search "direct
messages", 1:1 conversations, but **NOT ROOMS**.

# Problems with the mailing list <img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-02-01/groups.png">

It looks like https://groups.google.com/a/${COMPANY}/g/${FRIENDLY_NAME}, which is good, but:

1. It's even **slower** than Chat
2. People tend to use chat instead
3. If you [search with chat](https://s.natalian.org/2021-02-01/search-messages.png) you will not get Group results
4. If you [search Groups messages](https://s.natalian.org/2021-02-01/search-groups-conversations.png) you will not get chat results

# tl;dr

Having business discussions in Google Chat Rooms aka https://chat.google.com/room/ has serious limitations for search, let alone basic chat functionality. For example you can't even [search across rooms](https://s.natalian.org/2021-02-01/searching-chat.png).

The workaround is to bookmark
https://chat.google.com/search/room/${RANDOM_11_CHARS} and **remember to search
there specifically** if you are looking for a message from that specific Chat room.

Commit message:

New reasons to dislike Google Workspaces

content/blog/Gsuite-Workspaces-breakdown.md, after:

---
title: Google Workspaces Chat Rooms suck
date: 2021-02-01T10:48:55+08:00
description: Want to search across various mediums offered by Workspaces? You can't with chat rooms
---

Typically on a "Gsuite" enabled company you have

1. A chat room
2. A mailing list

# Problem with the chat room <img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-02-01/chat.png">

You will have a room that looks like: https://chat.google.com/room/${RANDOM_11_CHARS}

Issues:

1. Opaque room URL
1. Difficult to find/join rooms since you need to go via a **Browse Rooms** dialog
1. No pin / topic
1. No way to link to a conversation
1. No way to reference a message in a reply
1. Has a Files tab but doesn't summarise what's been shared by URL or screenshot. Forces you to use Google Docs.
1. When you use Files, of course these Files are not in Drive, so if you expect
them to be in Drive you will be very confused.
1. Random collapsing threads: <img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-04-28/collapse.png">
1. Not trivial for example to find past images, hint: *.jpg is the search query for photos

[Cloud search](https://s.natalian.org/2021-02-01/cloud-search.png) is of no
help when it comes to searching in Chat rooms. However [Gmail
search](https://s.natalian.org/2021-02-01/gmail.png) can search "direct
messages", 1:1 conversations, but **NOT ROOMS**.

# Problems with the mailing list <img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-02-01/groups.png">

It looks like https://groups.google.com/a/${COMPANY}/g/${FRIENDLY_NAME}, which is good, but:

1. It's even **slower** than Chat
2. People tend to use chat instead
3. If you [search with chat](https://s.natalian.org/2021-02-01/search-messages.png) you will not get Group results
4. If you [search Groups messages](https://s.natalian.org/2021-02-01/search-groups-conversations.png) you will not get chat results

# tl;dr

Having business discussions in Google Chat Rooms aka https://chat.google.com/room/ has serious limitations for search, let alone basic chat functionality. For example you can't even [search across rooms](https://s.natalian.org/2021-02-01/searching-chat.png).

The workaround is to bookmark
https://chat.google.com/search/room/${RANDOM_11_CHARS} and **remember to search
there specifically** if you are looking for a message from that specific Chat room.
