content/blog/software-cornwall.md, before:

---
title: Software Cornwall 2024
date: 2024-02-22T11:13:39Z
description: Commenting on the tech scene in Cornwall lack of infrastructure
---

# Context

UK is in a recession.  Cornwall is one of the poorest areas in the United
Kingdom. Like many places in the world, tech is seen as a way to grow the local
economy. Since I live in Cornwall I am interested to see the tech scene grow,
though I want to be pragmatic and document the infrastructure challenges from my perspective.

In the past few months, a major tech employer in Truro (a games company)
shutdown. The [tech event location
Heartlands](https://www.heartlandscornwall.com/) went into administration.
Space port Cornwall has a [failed
launch](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-cornwall-64253375) and paused
operations.

# The event

The [The BIG Cornish Tech
Showcase](https://softwarecornwall.org/event/the-big-cornish-tech-showcase/)
happened nonetheless, in the empty offices of [Space port
Cornwall](https://spaceportcornwall.com/), which I thought was serendipitous.

The event was well organised and well attended considering its remote location,
though for me there was a distinct lack of developers. The kick off mentioned
there was a lack of talent in the county, which reinforced my impression.

# The future

For me we need a place where developers can meet, work, socialise and learn
from each other, and since the typical venue "Heartlands" is gone, I really
wonder where that will be.

It needs to be close to a University and a train station. Accessible by public transport.

Ideally it's a destination for remote workers, somewhere they can enjoy
seafood, enjoy the natural beauty and perhaps surf. Ideally it has good, cheap
local accommodation for people to stay a bit longer.

On a positive note, fibre broadband is pretty pervasive in Cornwall. During the
summer people can happily camp in a tent.

Commit message:

A30 doesn't meet the train line thought

content/blog/software-cornwall.md, after:

---
title: Software Cornwall 2024
date: 2024-02-22T11:13:39Z
description: Commenting on the tech scene in Cornwall infrastructure challenges
---

# Context

UK is in a recession.  Cornwall is one of the poorest areas in the United
Kingdom. Like many places in the world, tech is seen as a way to grow the local
economy. Since I live in Cornwall I am interested to see the tech scene grow,
though I want to be pragmatic and document the infrastructure challenges from my perspective.

In the past few months, a major tech employer in Truro (a games company)
shutdown. The [tech event location
Heartlands](https://www.heartlandscornwall.com/) went into administration.
Space port Cornwall has a [failed
launch](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-cornwall-64253375) and paused
operations.

# The event

The [The BIG Cornish Tech
Showcase](https://softwarecornwall.org/event/the-big-cornish-tech-showcase/)
happened nonetheless, in the empty offices of [Space port
Cornwall](https://spaceportcornwall.com/), which I thought was serendipitous.

The event was well organised and well attended considering its remote location,
though for me there was a distinct lack of developers. The kick off mentioned
there was a lack of talent in the county, which reinforced my impression.

# The future

For me we need a place where developers can meet, work, socialise and learn
from each other, and since the typical venue "Heartlands" is gone, I really
wonder where that will be.

It needs to be close to a University and a train station. Accessible by public
transport.

Ideally it's a destination for remote workers, somewhere they can enjoy
seafood, enjoy the natural beauty and perhaps surf. Ideally it has good, cheap
local accommodation for people to stay a bit longer.

On a positive note, fibre broadband is pretty pervasive in Cornwall. During the
summer people can happily camp in a tent.

The new A30 improvements make it quite easy to drive into Cornwall from Exeter.
Trouble it the A30 doesn't connect anything on the train line going into
Cornwall. Neither infrastructure takes you close to nice parts of the
coastline.
