content/blog/uk-politics.md, before:

---
title: The problem with UK Politics
date: 2024-06-29T06:28:54+01:00
description: UK Politics is dominated by people with a superiority complex
---

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2024-06-29/uk.png" alt="UK in relation to Europe" />

British history looks like:

* 16-17th century: British Empire, outward looking
* 18-19th century: Industrial Revolution, British Empire at its peak, **Abolition of Slavery**
* 20th century: World Wars, Empire disbanded, <abbr title="National health service">NHS</abbr>, inwards looking

The country will hold an election on the 4th of July with:

* higher taxation than ever
* a failing NHS
* a failed immigration process

# Human capital

After living in Singapore for more than a decade, one clear difference to me is
how the UK views human capital. Singapore brings in foreign talent to fill in
low paid jobs, lifting quality of life/infrastructure and in the UK this is
almost unthinkable. For many "superior" Brits, this is akin to "slavery".

In Singapore if an illegal immigrant is caught, they are deported. In the UK,
they are given accommodation, whilst they are put in a [costly
backlog](https://migrationobservatory.ox.ac.uk/resources/briefings/the-uks-asylum-backlog/).
These benefits are not a deterrent to [small boat
arrivals](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/migrants-detected-crossing-the-english-channel-in-small-boats/migrants-detected-crossing-the-english-channel-in-small-boats-last-7-days).

In Singapore if a work permit holder loses their job, they have 30 days to find
a new job or leave the country (deported).

In Singapore if a work permit holder is caught with drugs, they are deported.

In Singapore if a work permit holder gets sick, employers are responsible for
their medical bills. If the employer doesn't support the worker, the worker is
deported.

In Singapore if a work permit holder gets pregnant, they fail a health check
and are deported.

UK readers will be shocked by the above, though this is how a successful
Singapore has managed.

British people will cry human rights or "slavery!", but the UK is enslaving its
own people and economy, by not managing human capital.

# Shackled

The UK's fiscal policy is one of ruin. Productive employees are [taxed upto
60%](https://youtu.be/P5AV-1266zc?si=6j6cWuF3vNhUBJvQ). Brits with less
opportunities will think it's not worthwhile to work and claim benefits. Taxes
are spent on the NHS, subsidies and benefits, without vision of how to make it
sustainable. 

# The future

<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Labour_Party_(UK)">The Labour party</a>
is bound to be elected this year. The UK will get worse since [their
plan](https://labour.org.uk/change/my-plan-for-change/) doesn't address costly
fundamental issues. Labour will make things worse by fixing "tax avoidance" and
increasing taxes.

In four years, the best we can hope for is a straight talking far right leader
to take power and actually address the issues and deport people. A future of
extremes and turmoil which I am not looking forward to.

Commit message:

distinction between WP and EP holders

content/blog/uk-politics.md, after:

---
title: The problem with UK Politics
date: 2024-06-29T06:28:54+01:00
description: UK Politics is dominated by people with a superiority complex
---

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2024-06-29/uk.png" alt="UK in relation to Europe" />

British history looks like:

* 16-17th century: British Empire, outward looking
* 18-19th century: Industrial Revolution, British Empire at its peak, **Abolition of Slavery**
* 20th century: World Wars, Empire disbanded, <abbr title="National health service">NHS</abbr>, inwards looking

The country will hold an election on the 4th of July with:

* higher taxation than ever
* a failing NHS
* a failed immigration process

# Human capital

After living in Singapore for more than a decade, one clear difference to me is
how the UK views human capital. Singapore brings in foreign talent to fill in
low paid jobs, lifting quality of life/infrastructure and in the UK this is
almost unthinkable. For many "progressive" Brits, this is akin to "slavery".

In Singapore if an illegal immigrant is caught, they are deported. In the UK,
they are given accommodation, whilst they are put in a [costly
backlog](https://migrationobservatory.ox.ac.uk/resources/briefings/the-uks-asylum-backlog/).
These benefits are not a deterrent to [small boat
arrivals](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/migrants-detected-crossing-the-english-channel-in-small-boats/migrants-detected-crossing-the-english-channel-in-small-boats-last-7-days).

To simplify Singapore system, there are [two tiers of foreign workers making up the workforce](https://www.mom.gov.sg/foreign-workforce-numbers):
1. Work permit holders - your domestic helpers, construction workers, childcare assistants, cleaners ~1 million of a ~6 million population
2. Employment pass holders - your professionals, managers, executives - about 200k 

In Singapore if a work permit holder loses their job, they have 30 days to find
a new job or leave Singapore.

In Singapore if a work permit holder gets sick, employers are responsible for
their medical bills. If the employer doesn't support the worker, the worker needs to leave home.

In Singapore if a work permit holder gets pregnant, they fail a health check
and they need to leave.

UK readers will be shocked by the above, though this is how a successful
Singapore has managed.

British people will cry human rights or "slavery!", but the UK is enslaving its
own people and economy, by not managing human capital.

# Shackled

The UK's fiscal policy is one of ruin. Productive employees are [taxed upto
60%](https://youtu.be/P5AV-1266zc?si=6j6cWuF3vNhUBJvQ). Brits with less
opportunities will think it's not worthwhile to work and claim benefits. Taxes
are spent on the NHS, subsidies and benefits, without vision of how to make it
sustainable. 

# The future

<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Labour_Party_(UK)">The Labour party</a>
is bound to be elected this year. The UK will get worse since [their
plan](https://labour.org.uk/change/my-plan-for-change/) doesn't address costly
fundamental issues. Labour will make matters worse by fixing "tax avoidance" and
increasing taxes, without checking expenditure.

In four years, the best we can hope for is a straight talking far right leader
to take power and actually address the issues and deport people. A future of
extremes and turmoil which I am not looking forward to.
