content/blog/weekly-iterations.md, before:

---
title: Weekly Iterations
date: 2021-10-05T09:43:36+08:00
description: A way of working
---

* **Monday** Planning / Estimation - send board URL to <abbr title="Product Owner">PO</abbr> for feedback / Research
* **Tuesday** Code
* **Wednesday** Code
* **Thursday** Code / Prepare demos for showcase
* **Friday** Book time with the <abbr title="Product Owner">PO</abbr>
	* Morning: Backlog refinement - talk about backlog priority and add any missing item if needed
	* Afternoon: Showcase, Retrospective

# Showcase

[Record a **one minute screencast**](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208721)
to demonstrate the "Done" card. Make sure it is [encoded as an MP4 with
ffmpeg](https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-05/htmlvideo.txt) upon a well known
location for sharing.

Showcase **live** to ensure a fluid interation with stakeholders, and only
fallback to the screencast if something goes wrong or you want to **share
wider** with people who did not attend.

# Retrospective

Read out:

>	Regardless of what we discover, we must understand and truly believe that
>	everyone did the best job they could, given what they knew at the time,
>	their skills and abilities, the resources available, and the situation at
>	hand.

* Ensure team members are comfortable sharing - consider private time
* Objective: honest feedback to drive improvements
* Ideally <abbr title="Product Owner">PO</abbr> participates

Commit message:

Meetings can be merged via Tua

content/blog/weekly-iterations.md, after:

---
title: Weekly Iterations
date: 2021-10-05T09:43:36+08:00
description: A way of working
---

* **Monday** Planning / Estimation - send board URL to <abbr title="Product Owner">PO</abbr> for feedback / Research
* **Tuesday** Code
* **Wednesday** Code
* **Thursday** Code / Prepare demos for showcase
* **Friday** Book time with the <abbr title="Product Owner">PO</abbr>
	* Morning: Backlog refinement - talk about backlog priority and add any missing item if needed
	* Afternoon: Showcase, Retrospective

## Meetings can be merged

> FYI: Sometimes, you might combine a Monday session (Planning / Estimation) into
> a Showcase session to minimize the number of meetings.  Showcase first then
> talked about Planning after, .. did it because our PO was very busy.

Be concious of everyone's time and energy. Be concious of [bike
shedding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_triviality) and the value of
time.  1+hr meetings are HARD! The chairperson, typically the person wearing
the <abbr title="Business Analyst">BA</abbr> hat, needs to carefully allocate
time to each ceremony.  Ideally **all participants are prepared in advance**,
i.e. read through the cards at play **in advance**. Demos prepared **in
advance**.  Questions asked **in advance**.

For a remote meeting, ensure you have [wired internet and a good
microphone](https://dabase.com/blog/2020/av-tips/).

# Showcase

[Record a **one minute screencast**](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208721)
to demonstrate the "Done" card. Make sure it is [encoded as an MP4 with
ffmpeg](https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-05/htmlvideo.txt) upon a well known
location for sharing.

Showcase **live** to ensure interaction with stakeholders, and only
fallback to the screencast if something goes wrong or you want to **share
wider** with people who did not attend.

# Retrospective

Read out **the Prime Directive**:

>	Regardless of what we discover, we must understand and truly believe that
>	everyone did the best job they could, given what they knew at the time,
>	their skills and abilities, the resources available, and the situation at
>	hand.

* Ensure team members are comfortable sharing - consider private time
* Objective: honest positive feedback to drive improvements
* Ideally <abbr title="Product Owner">PO</abbr> participates
