[[meta title="crontab job"]]
Read:
 man 5 crontab
For the aliases. Example:
 perry$ crontab -l
 # m h  dom mon dow   command
 @daily /home/hendry/projects/svn/backup-repo.sh
Additionally from http://www.faoileag.de/stuff/howto.html#cron
How to start a cron job
The cron daemon consults so-called crontabs for jobs to execute (and when to execute them). These crontabs are ordinary textfiles, however you should always use the appropriate tool (crontab) to manipulate them.
To have a look at your crontab execute crontab -l. If a crontab exists then it's contents is listed, otherwise "no crontab for <username>" will be displayed.
To add or delete an entry in your crontab, use crontab -e. Which editor is used can be customized, but usually it's vi.
You add or delete entries by adding or deleting the appropriate line in the crontab (every entry takes exactly one line).
Each line consists of six columns which are seperated by blanks. The sixth (rightmost) column tells cron which command/file to execute (always use the full path here), while the other five columns tell cron when to execute it.
The columns (1 stands for the leftmost column, counting to the right) have the following meaning and take the values in brackets:
   1. Minute (0 - 59)
   2. Hour (0 - 23)
   3. Day of month (1 - 31)
   4. Month (1 - 12)
   5. Day of the week (0 - 6, 0 representing sunday, 6 saturday)
In each of these five columns an asterisk ("*") stands for "every". Example: "15 4 * * * /home/joe/backup.sh" would mean that everyday at 4:15 in the morning the script backup.sh in joe's home directory would be executed (assuming, of course, that the script is executable).
If you want to specify a group of times, then concatenate the individual values, seperated by commas (Example: "00,15,30,45" - in the first column this would read as "every quarter of an hour on the quarter of the hour").
If you want to specify a range of times, you can use the minus (Example: "1-5" in the fifth column would read as "every workday").
