[[!meta title="Running Firefox in a systemd-nspawn container"]]

# Bootstrap your container

Assuming you installed firefox in a container `~/containers/firefox`. On first
run I had **Segmentation fault**s until I got [st](http://st.suckless.org/)
working. I suspect it's something to do with fonts!

# Setup /etc/systemd/system/systemd-nspawn@firefox.service.d/override.conf

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PYwFBYMBovk" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Mine looks like:

	[Service]
	ExecStart=
	ExecStart=/usr/bin/systemd-nspawn \
							--bind-ro=/home/hendry/.Xauthority:/home/hendry/.Xauthority \
							--bind=/home/hendry/.config:/home/hendry/.config \
							--bind=/tmp/.X11-unix \
							--bind=/dev/snd \
							--bind=/run/user/1000/pulse:/run/user/host/pulse \
							-D /home/hendry/containers/firefox \
							--bind /dev/shm \
							--bind /etc/machine-id \
							--network-veth -b

# Setup systemd-networkd & OpenVPN

I use a container networking configuration like so
[/etc/systemd/network/80-container-host0.network](http://s.natalian.org/2015-08-26/80-container-host0.network).

My VPN configuration lives in ~/containers/firefox/etc/openvpn/uk.conf and
is invoked by starting `openvpn@uk.service`.

# Sound

This is the most difficult part! After hours of trial and error, attempting to
decipher cryptic error messages, I started pulseaudio with `--disable-shm=true`
and things started to work!

I've tweaked `/usr/lib/systemd/user/pulseaudio.service` with that option.

	sudo machinectl shell hendry@firefox --setenv=DISPLAY=:0 --setenv=PULSE_SERVER=unix:/run/user/host/pulse/native

Note that my $USER is `hendry` which matches an account created also called
`hendry` in the container. This is the only way I have figured out how to get
pulseaudio & sound working!!

Firefox fails wtih `ALSA lib confmisc.c:768:(parse_card) cannot find card '0'`,
but I've found Chromium to work.

# TODO

This setup needs work. Especially the sound part is very cumbersome. Why is it
so hard to share video/sound devices? FFS!

OpenVPN is a but clumsy in the sense there is no way to quickly tell I'm on the
VPN and everything is OK.

# Word about network accounting

Assuming your container is called "firefox" like mine:

	grep firefox /proc/net/dev
	ve-firefox:  407205    2396    0    0    0     0          0         0  3732997    2814    0    0    0     0       0          0

So ~4 megabytes for a non-interactive Desktop session for BBC news.
Notice from the point of view of the host, the data was transmitted -
to the container!

That's why `/proc/net/dev`'s **Receive** and **Transmit** might be
flipped around.
