[[meta title="Testing for root in POSIX shell"]]

In order of preference. **The last code snippet is arguably the best**.

Do not depend on [bloated BASH](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bash) extensions!
Use the [bourne shell](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bourne_shell) and
lint/check with the `checkbashisms` tool from [Debian
devscripts](http://packages.qa.debian.org/d/devscripts.html).

	#!/bin/sh

`$USER` could be forged with certain shells! Also dangerous with `su`

	if test "$USER" != "xroot"
	then
		echo not root
		exit 1
	fi

Ugly !

	[ `id -u` -ne 0 ] && echo "not root" && exit 1

Using `test` is better, though still UGLY

	test "x$WHOAMI" != "xroot" && echo "not root" && exit 1

Old original bourne shell did not know test prepending !

	if ! test `id -u` = 0; then
		echo "not root" > /dev/stderr # /dev/stderror is not portable!
		exit 1
	fi

Old bourne shells did not know semi-colons either. Be careful to keep
whitespace on the inner area of the square brackets and notice we are using a
string comparison without quoting.

	if [ `id -u` -ne 0 ]; then
		echo >&2 "not root" # this works, but is not as readable as appending the stderr
		exit 1
	fi

Old bourne shells did not know $() subshell. Notice we are using numeric
comparison with strings, which could lead to problems on certain shells.

	if test "x$(whoami)" != "xroot" # in case whoami returns empty value
	then
		echo "not root" >&2
		exit 1
	fi

Easy to read [POSIX](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/POSIX) shell, though missing quotes which is sadly needed always to "play safe" :(

	if test `id -u` != 0
	then
		echo "not root" >&2
		exit 1
	fi

Modern shell style with quotes and [no backticks](http://wooledge.org:8000/BashFAQ/082)

	if [ "$(id -u)" -ne "0" ] # string comparison is better in shell as argument lists are strings
	then
		echo "not root" >&2
		exit 1
	fi

Old Bourne POSIX shell flavour. **Safe, portable and compatible** and a bit too verbose for my liking.

	ID=`id -u` # id is _slightly_ better than whoami, though less readable imo
	if test "x$ID" -ne "x0"
	then
		echo "not root" # you don't have to output to stderr if you don't want to
		exit 1
	fi

Using `test` is a better practice than using square brackets. Here I assume
`id` returns **something**. In certain rare environments you cannot make this
assumption!

	if test "$(id -u)" -ne "0"
	then
		echo "not root" >&2
		exit 1
	fi
