So I bought a "SanDisk SDSSDHP-128G-G25 128GB Ultra Plus SATA 3.0 6GB/s 7mm
Internal SSD" aka "sandisk" to complement my existing "OCZ 120GB Nocti SSD -
mSATA SATA-II - Read 280MB/s Write 260MB/s" aka "nocti" disk connected to my
Mini-SATA port.

I primarily thought I would **experiment with cloning** nocti to the sandisk, so
that if nocti failed I could use sandisk. Or I could see performance
differences running the same system. Or I could do fun things like upgrade one,
but not the other and see if I could measure or debug something.

# Straight up dd

I first tried, whilst running and mounted on /dev/sdb (nocti):

	dd if=/dev/sdb | pv | dd of=/dev/sda

`pv` supposed to "monitor the progress of data through a pipe", however it
didn't give me a proper progress bar. It only told me that I was copying at a
rate of about 10MB/sec, which I found a bit dissapointing.

	# parted --list | grep .
	Model: ATA SanDisk SDSSDH21 (scsi)
	Disk /dev/sda: 128GB
	Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
	Partition Table: msdos
	Disk Flags:
	Number  Start   End    Size   Type     File system  Flags
	 1      32.3kB  120GB  120GB  primary  ext4         boot
	Model: ATA OCZ-NOCTI (scsi)
	Disk /dev/sdb: 120GB
	Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
	Partition Table: msdos
	Disk Flags:
	Number  Start   End    Size   Type     File system  Flags
	 1      32.3kB  120GB  120GB  primary  ext4         boot

First problem is that I'm wasting 8GB. Second problem is that I'm dd-ing from a running system. Lets try boot into sandisk!

Uh oh, [lots of errors](http://www.flickr.com/photos/hendry/sets/72157636140014884/). `dd` simply didn't work, even after running a `fsck` upon it. Also scarily, the "sandisk" was referring to itself as "nocti" when I was using it. That's because when I dd-ed it, the label came across:

	x220:~$ sudo e2label /dev/sda1
	nocti
	x220:~$ sudo e2label /dev/sdb1
	nocti

Sadly one can't do a top level label, you have to do it on a partition:

	sudo e2label /dev/sda sandisk
	e2label: Bad magic number in super-block while trying to open /dev/sdb
	Couldn't find valid filesystem superblock.

# Lets try a dd from a live USB like Webconverger
