content/tips/vim/nodejs.md, before:

---
date: 2021-10-31
title: Editing Javascript in vim in Docker
description: Can neovim + plugins actually functionally beat Visual Studio code?
---

I'm spoilt by [vim-go](https://github.com/fatih/vim-go), goformat, goimports, a
[vim IDE](https://github.com/kaihendry/goide) that works productively for
programming Golang.

Now since I code in Javascript for work, especially for the [AWS Cloud
Development Kit](https://youtu.be/Du0l6z3dMVc) I want the same features in vim!

# The test

	git clone https://github.com/kaihendry/sam-cdk-app-demo.git

Open lib/aws-sam-cli-cdk-hello-world-stack.js

## Formatting

Add a poorly formatted console.log, will it get reformatted on save?

## Intellisense

Remove **runtime:** from the `lambda.Function` constructor. Is the editor (or
integrated language server) [smart enough to auto complete](https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-28/link-to-doc.mp4) / suggest that
**runtime** is mandatory and needs to put back?

Next test: Setup a dynamodb table. Can the editor automatically import
"@aws-cdk/aws-dynamodb"?

# Dockerized neovim

In order to reproduce issues with my own setup and others, I'm going to
evaluate different neovim configurations with the help of Docker containers.

I wouldn't realistically edit using Docker because it's far too slow to startup!!

## Spacevim

	docker run -it --rm spacevim/spacevim

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/spacevim.png">

A whole bunch of text errors on startup. Er next!

## [Sh1d0w/nvim-ide](https://github.com/Sh1d0w/nvim-ide#features)

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/1635639280_1918x1047.png" alt="console.constuctor">

`console.` completion sucks, no autoformatting. Docs are nice though:

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/docs.png">

Removing runtime, then correctly suggests I need **runtime back**:

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/runtime-suggestion.png">

If I save the file without runtime, there is no warning that my program will fail. Tbh VScode doesn't seem to show my program will fail either missing **runtime**!

Now adding:

	const atable = new dynamodb.Table(this, "hello-world-table", {

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/chokes.png">
<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/chokes2.png">

I give it 2/5 rating. It's probably coc-tsserver mostly at fault or probably me.

## [iimuz/nvim-code](https://github.com/iimuz/dockerfile/blob/master/nvim-node/Dockerfile)

Seems to be hinged on neovim 0.4x. Moving on..

## [jcirizar/vim](https://github.com/jcirizar/vim)

First to warn me:

	[coc.nvim] No ESLint configuration (e.g .eslintrc) found for file: /app/lib/aws-sam-cli-cdk-hello-world-stack.js

Completion seems useless:

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/1635649250_1918x1047.png">

Is <abbr title="Conquer of Completion">CoC</abbr> even working??

# [leny/docker-neovim](https://github.com/leny/docker-neovim/tree/master)

Fails to build:

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/1635649547_1918x1047.png" alt="/bin/sh: pip3: not found">

## [thled/docker-vim-ts](https://github.com/thled/docker-vim-ts)

A different sort of python build error!

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/1635649757_1918x1047.png" alt="gcc: fatal error: cannot execute 'cc1plus': execvp: No such file or directory">

## [protometa/editor](https://github.com/protometa/editor)

Could not get it to open `lib/aws-sam-cli-cdk-hello-world-stack.js`

## [hendry/js-nvim](https://github.com/kaihendry/js-nvim)

This is my project for my own sanity checking with <abbr title="Conquer of Completion">CoC</abbr>!

Auto complete on `console.` is sensible:

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/1635659600_1918x1047.png">

Docs are OK

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/docs.png">

But it doesn't seem to work on <abbr title="Cloud Development Kit">CDK</abbr>. No docs.

* Doesn't show runtime: is missing, if I [remove it from `new lambda.Function`](https://github.com/kaihendry/sam-cdk-app-demo/blob/8f27ea12a30c0a8b13f7eedd49b065b8c8478a58/lib/aws-sam-cli-cdk-hello-world-stack.js#L12)
* No auto imports -- do I need a [jsconfig.json](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/jsconfig) ??
* Don't actually understand how I should get format on save working. Do I need a eslintrc in https://github.com/kaihendry/sam-cdk-app-demo ??

😩

# Conclusion

I hear mentions of "nvim-compe", but [no Docker images with it](https://github.com/search?q=%22nvim-compe%22+filename%3ADockerfile&ref=simplesearch). I'm curious about not using coc-tsserver, but again I don't see any good examples of [neovim/nvim-lspconfig](https://github.com/search?q=neovim%2Fnvim-lspconfig+filename%3ADockerfile&ref=simplesearch) with javascript/typescript. Bizaare.

https://github.com/neoclide/coc-tsserver appears the critical component and I
fear I need a coc-settings.json or jsconfig.json or .eslintrc to get the most
out of it, since it doesn't show properties I'm missing on my constructors or
seemingly able to do imports automatically.

Commit message:

Better conclusion in light of what I learned with neovim

content/tips/vim/nodejs.md, after:

---
date: 2021-10-31
title: Editing Javascript in vim in Docker
description: Can neovim + plugins actually functionally beat Visual Studio code?
---

I'm spoilt by [vim-go](https://github.com/fatih/vim-go), goformat, goimports, a
[vim IDE](https://github.com/kaihendry/goide) that works productively for
programming Golang.

Now since I code in Javascript for work, especially for the [AWS Cloud
Development Kit](https://youtu.be/Du0l6z3dMVc) I want the same features in vim!

# The test

UPDATE: This test assumes Javascript, and for proper completion [typescript types](https://github.com/kaihendry/dabase.com/commit/7173d4ece54a6cfc76b30cfb8b8db8945d45cbaa#commitcomment-58991530) is more pragmatic.

	git clone https://github.com/kaihendry/sam-cdk-app-demo.git

Open lib/aws-sam-cli-cdk-hello-world-stack.js

## Formatting

Add a poorly formatted console.log, will it get reformatted on save?

## Intellisense

Remove **runtime:** from the `lambda.Function` constructor. Is the editor (or
integrated language server) [smart enough to auto complete](https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-28/link-to-doc.mp4) / suggest that
**runtime** is mandatory and needs to put back?

Next test: Setup a dynamodb table. Can the editor automatically import
"@aws-cdk/aws-dynamodb"?

# Dockerized neovim

In order to reproduce issues with my own setup and others, I'm going to
evaluate different neovim configurations with the help of Docker containers.

I wouldn't realistically edit using Docker because it's far too slow to startup!!

## Spacevim

	docker run -it --rm spacevim/spacevim

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/spacevim.png">

A whole bunch of text errors on startup. Er next!

## [Sh1d0w/nvim-ide](https://github.com/Sh1d0w/nvim-ide#features)

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/1635639280_1918x1047.png" alt="console.constuctor">

`console.` completion sucks, no autoformatting. Docs are nice though:

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/docs.png">

Removing runtime, then correctly suggests I need **runtime back**:

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/runtime-suggestion.png">

If I save the file without runtime, there is no warning that my program will fail. Tbh VScode doesn't seem to show my program will fail either missing **runtime**!

Now adding:

	const atable = new dynamodb.Table(this, "hello-world-table", {

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/chokes.png">
<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/chokes2.png">

I give it 2/5 rating. It's probably coc-tsserver mostly at fault or probably me.

## [iimuz/nvim-code](https://github.com/iimuz/dockerfile/blob/master/nvim-node/Dockerfile)

Seems to be hinged on neovim 0.4x. Moving on..

## [jcirizar/vim](https://github.com/jcirizar/vim)

First to warn me:

	[coc.nvim] No ESLint configuration (e.g .eslintrc) found for file: /app/lib/aws-sam-cli-cdk-hello-world-stack.js

Completion seems useless:

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/1635649250_1918x1047.png">

Is <abbr title="Conquer of Completion">CoC</abbr> even working??

# [leny/docker-neovim](https://github.com/leny/docker-neovim/tree/master)

Fails to build:

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/1635649547_1918x1047.png" alt="/bin/sh: pip3: not found">

## [thled/docker-vim-ts](https://github.com/thled/docker-vim-ts)

A different sort of python build error!

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/1635649757_1918x1047.png" alt="gcc: fatal error: cannot execute 'cc1plus': execvp: No such file or directory">

## [protometa/editor](https://github.com/protometa/editor)

Could not get it to open `lib/aws-sam-cli-cdk-hello-world-stack.js`

## [quay.io/nvim-lsp/try.nvim:nightly-typescript](https://github.com/kaihendry/dabase.com/commit/7173d4ece54a6cfc76b30cfb8b8db8945d45cbaa#commitcomment-58995093)

[mjlbach](https://github.com/mjlbach) put me onto his LUA based neovim configuration: <https://github.com/nvim-lsp/try.nvim/blob/master/typescript/init.lua>

I will probably switch to using https://github.com/nvim-lua/kickstart.nvim without a Docker image.

**hrsh7th/nvim-cmp** is the Autocompletion plugin, not "nvim-compe" which is deprecated.

## [hendry/js-nvim](https://github.com/kaihendry/js-nvim)

This is my project for my own sanity checking with <abbr title="Conquer of Completion">CoC</abbr>!

Auto complete on `console.` is sensible:

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/1635659600_1918x1047.png">

Docs are OK

<img src="https://s.natalian.org/2021-10-31/docs.png">

But it doesn't seem to work on <abbr title="Cloud Development Kit">CDK</abbr>. No docs.

* Doesn't show runtime: is missing, if I [remove it from `new lambda.Function`](https://github.com/kaihendry/sam-cdk-app-demo/blob/8f27ea12a30c0a8b13f7eedd49b065b8c8478a58/lib/aws-sam-cli-cdk-hello-world-stack.js#L12)
* No auto imports -- do I need a [jsconfig.json](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/jsconfig) ??
* Don't actually understand how I should get format on save working. Do I need a eslintrc in https://github.com/kaihendry/sam-cdk-app-demo ??

😩

# Conclusion

I learned two things about editing Javascript with vim.

First, for a experience comparable to the exemplary
[vim-go](https://github.com/fatih/vim-go) you need to ensure you're actually
working with **TypeScript Types**. This is actually non-trivial for smaller
packages where [type definitions are
contributed](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped) by the community.

Neovim departs from vim with its LUA language integration and its inbuilt
language server `:LspInfo`. I think I will give it a try. I encourage you to
try too:

	docker run --rm -it --entrypoint=sh -v $(pwd):/src quay.io/nvim-lsp/try.nvim:nightly-typescript

That said, don't get <abbr title="Fear of missing out">FOMO</abbr>. Editing vim
without this crazy configuration is actually the better place to be!
